so it's chatting to a friend on email
the other day about blood tests and they
said uh you know like you need to get
blood tests why no animal nature gets
blood tests like you don't need a blood
test you don't need so yeah that's right
you don't need blood tests animals in
those you don't get blood tests but if
you want a more accurate picture of
where you're going with your training
with your racing with your lifestyle
then blood tests can give you a bit of a
forecast a bit of a a warning or a
congratulations that you're on the right
track so if you get your training hard
or not just living hard you know your
family responsibilities and you get your
thyroid test it and it's low or high or
be at your high intestinal your
testosterone levels will hormone levels
or your cortisol your Beach World War
your hemoglobin or you he McCrystal your
MCV yeah zinc sodium potassium their
blood cell count all these things feed
I'm tested and give you a picture of
where you're at and maybe a forecast of
where you're going so if you're loading
anything the chances are you're not
getting off sleep you don't eat enough
calories you dehydrating yourself or
maybe need to take your b12 supplement
so I'm not going to go to a friend is a
house made of iron
and uh
the extra animal products everyday this
Beach was really low now has been for
last five years
disquieting a lot of your animal
products and he's come around in the
world and I should start supplement
because obviously as raw animal products
stuff doesn't work the b12 a lot of
people have absorption insures a lot of
people live in a stressful situation and
if you're an athlete training hard this
morning I went out with the 2008 World
Road champion mayor a cilantro belong
and these guys has trained so smart you
see him when they stop the car they
don't stay in the Sun that's down the
shade they always drink before they're
thirsty they eat before they're hungry
so I blood test they get blood test a
lot as well and just just to see how
you're getting to training so you don't
need blood tests but they're very
helpful very helpful it's just like we
don't live in a natural society anymore
you know we never will we live you 9:00
to 5:00 most of us live in a money
sister and we live in high stress you
know pressures status support peer
pressure all these things kids for the
years
status all these things say forget
living in a chipper wait andrew has been
close to nature and use some technology
to assist you just like right now use
the internet to inform yourself they're
using blood sets can be a great way to
inform yourself of where you're going
where you are now and where you've come
from so if you've never had a blood test
before the first blood test doesn't mean
anything you know I mean get them at
every three months
because you could be going up or down if
you don't have any past blood test
results you don't know you know does
that make sense that's just like say oh
I'm high and I earned it's like great
but we're low before were you higher so
you could be going down can be going up
could be staying stationary just like
traffic lights you know
so that makes sense you don't need blood
says they're very helpful I'll get him
at age seventy three months forget all
the things tested hormones cortisol
testosterone glucose red blood cell
count all these thing to put up in
YouTube you've seen them search vegan
blood tests and I'll talk to dr. Ferrari
who was like some people say the leading
sports doping specialist stop talking
throw it on email and he's giving me
like a little prince out of what is to
test for and why and understanding your
body you know when you understand your
body you want to look after a lot better
you want to give it a nurturing you want
to give it the high carbohydrate the low
fat
it's the fishing calories you want to
count off calories so you know you're
getting enough they can't calories to
starve itself County calories asleep get
enough most people don't eat enough
carbohydrates eat so much fat they look
fat milk fat get fat or take drugs to
avoid getting fat so sad high carb load
found out through outside enough
rambling look after yourself so when you
know what about your body one look knock
yourself just like yeah just like a
house plant give enough water and shade
and Sun it's all fun cuz that's the
right people can gain so they can start
developing signs of like my friend who
end up in the hospital it was diet dead
from dehydration another friend of mine
actually did die from dehydration
so I'm sure if we did some blood tests
before death we would have seen some
really bad things and it's all taught
myself a bit about blood pathology just
by reading my own chest many other
people's tests and learning you know
study medical journals self-education
he's powerful so anyway so my friend who
head up in the hospital elite athlete
228 marathoner sum of hospital and those
blood tests we could see that yeah there
was a storm brewing thyroid was too low
for an athlete some blood parameters
were too low for an athlete so by
getting that fleet more rest more
hydration more carbohydrates we can
support the body and but often what
happens as people start to feel a bit
slower so that they all need to train
more I need to train harder I'm not
training hard enough I'm gonna smash it
every fucking day and then but I
actually need more rest
they need more restful water more
carbohydrates late they need any more
training so their vain
they burn out as long as they die
unfortunately most times set up in
hospital so I'm just think glandular
fever or plenty fatigue or epsilon bar I
really want to call it then so yeah
we're doing blood tests you can get a
forecast what's going to happen if
you're savvy so always even down skip
training or train really easy and take a
month off if you have to it's better to
be strong through the super strong for a
month and then burning out for six
months don't make sense learn how to
train smarter not harder
rest is best see on the ride
[Music]